# Assessing the Influence of Cognitive Dual-Task Demands on Postural Control: An Event‑Related Approach Using Continuous Force‑Plate Data
Anton Koger[1], Leif Johannsen[1], Andrea Kiesel[2], Iring Koch[1], Raphael Hartmann[2], Hermann Müller[3], Elisa Straub[2], and Denise N. Stephan[1]
[1] RWTH Aachen University, [2] University of Freiburg, [3] University of Gießen

## 65th Annual Meeting of the Psychonomic Society • New York City • November 21-24 2024
The poster and additional material from the 65th Annual Meeting of the Psychonomic Society in New York City from November 21-24 2024

# Abstract
 Cognitive-processing demands can affect postural control processes. Traditional methods of analysing postural control aggregate sway data, making it difficult to isolate the specific influence of cognitive processes on postural control. Recently, postural-control parameters were measured continuously with a force plate during standing and analysed in an event-related approach while participants completed a Simon Task. Resolving response conflict in the Simon Task reduced variability in postural control prior to the manual response. In the present study, this event-related approach is used during a cognitive dual task to explore how cognitive processes involved in executing two tasks in rapid succession influence postural control processes. The dual task comprises a visual-vocal short-term memory task with a delayed vocal response and an auditory-manual reaction time (RT) task. We manipulated the stimulus-onset asynchrony (SOA: 100 vs. 1,000 ms) between the stimuli (Experiment 1) and whether participants had to report or ignore the visual object (task load: ignore vs. report; Experiment 2). These were applied on a trial-by-trial basis or in blocks of predictable versus unpredictable task load (Experiment 3). RTs in the auditory-manual RT task were longer during short compared to long SOA, suggesting a bottleneck caused by encoding the visual object for later report. This bottleneck disappeared in predictable ignore trials, when the visual object was never relevant. Assessing the postural correlates revealed no process-specific influence of SOA on postural control processes, but a reduction of sway variability after visual target onset in report but not in ignore trials. Moreover, a difference in sway variability over the course of a trial in report vs. ignore trials occurred in predictable blocks only. We propose a Dynamic Cognitive-Motor Interference Model (DCMI) which describes the influence of capacity limited cognitive processes and their influence on postural control processes. Furthermore, it takes the temporal modulation of cognitiv-motor interference as well as the predictive and adaptive character of postural control adjustments into account.
